>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
DECEMBER 15th, NELSON MANDELA IS
LAID TO REST
THE FUTURE OF SOUTH AFRICA
WITHOUT HIM.
PRESIDENT OBAMA REVIEWS TH
SURVEILLANCE PROGRAM, WHAT
CHANGES ARE IN STORE AND WHA
BANKS CAN LEARN ABOUT SERVIN
THE POOR
>> WHEN YOU WALK INTO A CHEC
CASHER, YOU SEE THE FEES FOR
EVERY SERVICES POSTED IN HUG
BONDS.
YOU WALK INTO A BANK AND THERE'S
NO SIGNAGE AT ALL.
>> NEXT, ON PBS "NEWS HOUR
WEEKEND.
>>> GOOD EVENING THANKS FO
JOINING US
I'M JOHN LARSON, HAR
SREENIVASAN IS OFF
NELSON MANDELA WAS BURIED TODA
IN THE REMOTE COMMUNITY WHERE HE
WAS RAISED
HE WAS REMEMBERED.
>> AS YOUR JOURNEY ENDS TODAY,
IT MUST CONTINUE IN EARNEST.
ONE THING WE CAN ASSURE YOU AS
OF TODAY AS YOU TAKE YOUR FINA
STEPS, SOUTH AFRICA WILL
CONTINUE TO RISE
[ APPLAUSE ]
>> MORE ABOUT THE FUTURE O
SOUTH AFRICA AFTER THE NEW
SUMMERY.
CHINA'S PRESIDENT LAUNCHED WHA
IS BEING DESCRIBED AS TH
HIGHEST LEVEL CORRUPTION
INVESTIGATION IN THE 65 YEAR
SINCE THE COMMUNIST PARTY CAME
TO POWER THERE
"THE NEW YORK TIMES" REPORTS
THAT THE FORMER HEAD OF TH
NATION'S SECURITY APPARATUS IS
BEING INVESTIGATED AND IS NO
BEING HELD UNDER GUARD AT HI
HOME
THE PRESIDENT HAS VOWED TO TAK
ON LOW AND HIGH LEVEL CORRUP
OFFICIALS, OFFICIALS H
DESCRIBED AS FLIES AND TIGERS.
THE EU SUSTAINED SENDED TALK
ABOUT A DEAL TO BRING THAT
NATION CLOSER TO THE EAST.
UKRAINE HAS NOT SIGNED THE
AGREEMENT BECAUSE OF OPPOSITION.
200,000 PROTESTERS FILLED TH
SQUARE DEMANDING THAT TH
GOVERNMENT MOVE FORWARD ON THE
DEAL AND JOINED BY CHRIS MURPH
OF CONNECTICUT AND JOHN McCAIN
OF ARIZONA
>> THIS IS ABOUT THE FUTURE YO
WANT FOR YOUR COUNTRY.
THIS IS ABOUT THE FUTURE YOU
DESERVE.
A FUTURE OF PEACE.
>> IRANIAN FOREIGN MINISTER SAID
HIS COUNTRY WILL RESUME NUCLEA
NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE WEST
DESPITE HALTING TECHNICAL TALK
A FEW DAYS AGO
IN A POSTING ON FACEBOOK HE SAID
IRAN WOULD RETURN TO THE
NEGOTIATING TABLE DESPIT
UNSUITABLE ACTIONS
ON THURSDAY, THE UNITED STATES
BLACKLISTED ADDITIONAL COMPANIES
IT SAID ARE CONTRIBUTING T
IRAN'S NEW CLEAR PROGRAM
IN SYRIA, AN AIR RAID CLAIMED 36
LIVES INCLUDING THOSE OF 1
CHILDREN
A HUMAN RIGHTS GROUP SAYS TH
CASUALTIES IN THE NORTHERN CIT
OCCURRED AFTER SYRIAN BARREL
BOMBS ON A POPULATED AREA.
THEY ARE EXPLOSIVE FILLE
BARRELS AND ROLLED OUT OF TH
BACK OF HHELICOPTERS
>>> MICHELIN ANNOUNCED THE
RECALL OF MORE THAN A MILLIO
TIRES SOLD IN THE UNITED STATES.
THE COMPANY SAYS THE LTXM TIRE
ARE COMMONLY USED ON PICKU
TRUCKS, LIGHT TRUCKS AND HEAVY
DUTY VANS.
THE COMPANY SAYS THEY CA
DEFLATE RAPIDLY AND/OR LOS
TRADE.
>>> PETER O'TOOLE HAS TIED A
THE AGE OF 81.
DURING A CAREER THAT SPANNED
MORE THAN 50 YEARS, O'TOOLE WA
NOMINATED FOR EIGHT ACADEM
AWARDS
THE FIRST, FOR THE 1962 FILM
LAWRENCE OF ARABIA
>> AS THEY FIGHT TRIBE AGAINST
TRIBE, GREEDY, BARBARUOS AND
CRUEL AS YOU ARE
>>> NOW THAT NELSON MANDELA HA
BEEN BURIED, WE THOUGHT WE WOULD
LOOK AHEAD TO THE FUTURE O
SOUTH AFRICA
FOR MORE ABOUT THAT WE'RE JOINED
BY THE EDITOR AT LARGE FOR NEW
YORK TIMES AND WAS
JOHANNESBURG'S NEWS EDITOR
CHIEF.
WE HEARD PRESIDENT ZUMA HE
THOUGHT SOUTH AFRICA WOULD
CONTINUE TO RISE
I GUESS THE BIG QUESTION IS WILL
IT
>> YOU'RE RIGHT, JOHN.
THAT'S THE HARDEST QUESTION TO
ANSWER
HE LEFT AN UNDENIABLE LEGACY O
PROGRESS
THE COUNTRY HAS MASSIV
CHALLENGES WITH INEQUALITIES AND
OPPORTUNITIES BETWEEN BLAC
MASSES AND A WHITE MINORITY AN
BLACK MIDDLE CLASS IS EXPLODED
AND DIDN'T EXIST WHEN I WA
ORIGINALLY IN SOUTH AFRICA
AT THE SAME TIME, THIS COUNTRY
HAS CHALLENGES THAT, YOU KNOW,
VERY FEW COUNTRIES COULD
OVERCOME
THE FACT THAT IT'S COME THIS FAR
IS A MIRACLE
I THINK SOUTH AFRICANS, WHEN
THEY TALK ABOUT MANDELA AND WHAT
HE LEFT, YOU HEAR IT IN THEI
WONDERMENT AND UNITY WE CAN'
KNOW WHAT HIS ABSENCE IS GOING
TO DO TO THAT COUNTRY AND WHAT
IT WILL DO, FOR INSTANCE, TO THE
BLACK MAJORITY'S PATIENCE, WHICH
IS ENDURING SO FAR
>> I'M STRUCK BY A NUMBER ON
THINGS IN YOUR REPORTING
ONE, THE DETAILING OF TH
ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND CHALLENGES
I BELIEVE HOW YOU WROTE THERE IS
A MILLION OR SO NEW HOMES BUIL
SINCE 2001 OR SO, THE AVERAG
INCOME OF BLACK SOUTH AFRICANS
HAS RISEN SIGNIFICANTLY BUT TH
DISCREPANCY BETWEEN BLACK AN
WHITE SOUTH AFRICANS IS GROWIN
EVERY MONTH.
>> IF ANY ONE GROUP HA
BENEFITTED, YOU SAY WHITE SOUT
AFRICANS
THEY ARE BETTER OFF NOW THAN THE
END OF THE APARTHEID BECAUSE
DEMOCRACY AND FREE ENTERPRIS
HELPS THOSE WHO HAVE A LEVEL
MEANS, BASIC MEANS O
OPPORTUNITY ALREADY WHERE TH
BLACK MASSES, YOU KNOW, THOS
OPPORTUNITIES HAVE NOT REALL
COME
FOR A SMALL BLACK ELITE, THE
OPPORTUNITIES ARE EXTRAORDINAR
AND RICH AND THEIR CHILDREN AR
EDUCATED AND SPEAK WITH AN
ACCENT THAT NO BLACK PERSON HA
WHEN I WAS IN SOUTH AFRICA
BECAUSE IT'S AN ACCENT OF TH
EDUCATED
FOR THE BLACK MASSES, THAT
HASN'T HAPPENED.
>> IN THE REPORTING WE FOCUS O
THE SOUTH AFRICAN CULTURE, THE
EXACT OPPOSITE OF MANDELA'
LEGACY AND IN THE LOCA
POLITICS, THEY ARE TALKING ABOUT
IT
HOW DO YOU THINK WE'LL SEE THI
PLAY OUT
WILL IT BE IN NATIONAL OR LOCA
ELECTIONS, OR DO YOU THINK I
WILL BE UNSCRIPTED
>> NATIONAL AND LOCAL ELECTION
AND NOT IN THE NEXT ROUND OF
ELECTIONS A YEAR OR SO AWAY BU
AFTER THAT WHEN MANDELA'S MEMORY
IS FADING MORE AND THE
RECONCILIATION AND FORGIVENESS
AND PATIENCE IS FADING
THE BLACK MIDDLE CLASS, WHICH IS
ALREADY WILLING TO LOOK AT OTHER
PARTIES AND ALTERNATIVES
YOU'LL SEE THE BLACK MASSES, I
THINK, PROBABLY LESS PATIENT AND
SAYING THE AMC MUST HAVE
STRONGER POLICIES, MORE RADICA
POLICIES AND INTENDED TO CHANG
THEIR LIFE
THAT'S WHERE YOU'LL SEE THE AN
POLITICS CHANGE AND YOU'LL SEE
THE BLACK MIDDLE CLASS GO AWAY
FROM THE ANC AND BLACK WORKING
CLASS AND UNDER CLASS DEMAND
GREATER RADICAL CHANGE FROM TH
ANC.
>> MARCUS MABRY, EDITOR AT LARGE
THE NEW YORK TIMES
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
>>> NOW TO THE SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
IT MAY BE HARD TO IMAGINE, BUT
17 MILLION AMERICANS HAVE NO
BANK ACCOUNT AT ALL.
THAT MEANS THEY HAVE TO USE CASH
FOR THEIR TRANSACTIONS, AND THAT
OFTEN MEANS RELYING ON A CHECK
CASHING SERVICE.
FOR SOMETIME NOW, TH
CONVENTIONAL WISDOM HAS BEEN
THESE BUSINESSES TAKE ADVANTAG
OF THE POOR BUT CHARGING THE
HIGH FEES THAT COULD BE AVOIDE
IF THEY HAD A BANK ACCOUNT
SOME ARE QUESTIONING WHETHER
THESE CHECK CASHING SERVICES ARE
REALLY THAT MUCH WORSE THA
BANKS, WHICH THEY SAY DON'T DO A
VERY GOOD JOB AT ALL AT SERVIN
THE POOR
OUR REPORT IS BY "NEWS HOUR"
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT CARL
MURPHY
>> Reporter: FOR HOST OF US,
GOING TO THE LOCAL BANK TO
DEPOSIT A CHECK IS SECOND NATURE
BUT FOR MANY POOR PEOPLE IN TH
SOUTH BONKS, IT'S NOT.
MORE THAN HALF THE RESIDENTS
HERE DON'T HAVE A BANK ACCOUNT
SO ON A FRIDAY AFTERNOON
CUSTOMERS TRICKLE INTO RIGHT
CHECK, A CHECK CASHING STORE
THEY ARE PAYING BILLS, BUYIN
MONEY ORDERS AND CASHING CHECK
CRITICIZED SEEMING TO EXPLOI
THE POOR BY CHARGING HIGH FEES
ON THIS DAY, ONE OF THE TELLER
IS NOT LIKE THE OTHERS
SHE'S A PROFESSOR OF URBAN
POLICY AT THE NEW SCHOOL I
MANHATTAN AND HER JOB AT THI
CHECK CASHING STORE IS PART OF A
RESEARCH PROJECT TO FIND WHY
PEOPLE CHOOSE TO COME HERE
DESPITE THE FEES, RATHER THA
GOING TO A BANK.
WHAT WERE YOUR IMPRESSIONS
>> I THOUGHT THE SAME THING IN
THE PRESS.
I WOULD SAY THE LITERATURE THA
CALLED CHECK CASHERS ABUSIVE AND
PREDATORY, AND, YOU KNOW, BEIN
BUSINESSES REALLY TAKING
ADVANTAGE OF THE POOR.
SO I BELIEVED THAT
>> Reporter: BUT THAT BELIEF I
CHALLENGED WHEN A MAN THAT RUN
A BUSINESS VISITED LISA'S CLAS
AS A GUEST LECTURER FIVE YEARS
AGO.
>> LISA IS LIKE, I'LL GET MY
GRADUATE STUDENTS AND LAID THI
GUY TO WASTE
>> Reporter: JOE COLEMAN IS TH
PRESIDENT OF THE CHECK CASHING
STORE.
>> SHE HAD THE USUAL, KIND OF,
IDEA CHECK CASHES ARE EVIL
I TOOK MY HORN AND TAIL OFF AN
SHOWED UP AT THE NEW SCHOOL.
>> Reporter: AFTER COLEMAN
APPEARED IN THE CLASS, SHE
STARTED RETHINKING THE ROL
CHECK CASHERS WERE PLAYING
>> KIND OF THE UNDER LYING
ASSUMPTION, IF THEY ARE BA
BUSINESSES, THE PEOPLE THAT US
THEM ARE NOT VERY SMART, RIGHT
I KNEW THAT WASN'T TRUE.
I KNEW FROM MY OTHER WORK, WHE
YOU'RE LOW INCOME OR WORKING
POOR, YOU'RE REALLY GOOD A
MANAGING YOUR MONEY BECAUSE YO
DON'T HAVE MUCH.
SO IT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE THA
PEOPLE WOULD WILLINGLY PAY MOR
FOR SOMETHING THAT THEY COUL
GET FOR LESS, AND THE ONLY WAY I
WAS FIGURING THAT OUT WAS TO GET
AS CLOSE TO THE PROBLEM AS I
COULD GET.
I COULDN'T REALLY, YOU KNOW, G
UNDER COVER AS A POOR PERSON
IT WOULDN'T REALLY WORK, BUT I
CALLED JOE FIVE YEARS AFTER HE
CAME TO MY CLASS AND ASKED HIM
IF HE WOULD HIRE ME AS A TELLER.
>> Reporter: SHE WORKED WEEKLY
AS A TELLER IN A STORE
SHE SOON DISCOVERED THAT JUS
GETTING QUICK ACCESS TO THEI
MONEY AS OPPOSED TO WAITING FO
A CHECK TO CLEAR IN THE BANK I
A BIG REASON THEY USE TH
SERVICES DESPITE FEES THAT
NATIONALLY AVERAGE ABOUT 4%.
>> THEY ARE HAVING TO PAY FEES
TO CASH A CHECK.
ISN'T IT BETTER TO DO THAT AT
BANK WHERE IT COSTS ALMOST
NOTHING?
>> IN FACT, A LOT OF PEOPLE HA
BANK ACCOUNTS AND OTHERS HAD HAD
THEM AND DIDN'T ANY LONGER
>> Reporter: SHE INTERVIEWED
CUSTOMERS FOR HER RESEARCH AND
SAYS ONE REASON BANKS ARE SEEN
EXPENSIVE IS A LACK OF
TRANSPARENCY OF FEES
MANY DIDN'T KNOW THE FEES AN
WHEN THEY WOULD HIT.
>> WHEN YOU WALK INTO A CHEC
CASHER, YOU SEE THE FEES POSTE
IN HUGE FRONT.
WHEN YOU WALK INTO A BANK AN
THERE IS NO SIGNAGE AT ALL
>> Reporter: PEOPLE WITH BAN
ACCOUNTS ARE GIVEN DISCLOSUR
AGREEMENTS LAYING OUT WHEN YOU
PAY A BANK FEE AND FOR HOW MUC
BUT THEY TYPICALLY RUN 70 PAGES.
WOULD YOU RATHER USE THE BANK,
IF YOU COULD
WE SPENT TIME AT CHECK CASHING
STORES IN THE SOUTH BRONX AN
HEARD COMPLAINTS ABOUT THE
BANKS, SERVICES, THE TIME IT
TOOK THEM TO CLEAR AND NOT BEING
ENOUGH BRANCHS AND THE HIG
PENALTIES FOR BOUNCING A CHECK
AND HIDDEN FEES.
>> I WOULD RATHER CASH MY MONE
HERE AND I HAVE THE WHOLE MONE
I NEED AND PUT IT IN THE BANK BY
THE TIME I REALIZE, THEY TOO
HALF MY MONEY OUT.
>> Reporter: AVERAGE FEES TO
MAINTAIN A NON-INTEREST BEARIN
ACCOUNT TRIPLED IN THE LAS
YEARS.
THE PERCENTAGE OF FREE CHECK
ACCOUNTS IS HALF OF WHAT IT WA
IN 2009 AND FREE, OF THEN MEAN
MAINTAINING A MINIMUM BALANCE OR
USING DIRECT DEPOSIT
>> JONATHAN MINCE, THE
COMMISSIONER OF THE NEW YORK
CITY DEPARTMENT OF CONSUPE
AFFAIRS SAYS BANKS STILL PLAY
VITAL ROLE HELPING THE POOR GE
AHEAD.
>> BANKING IS REALLY THE KEY
ONRAMP TO WHETHER OR NOT YOU'R
INVOLVED IN A PRODUCTIVE STE
FORWARD OR WHETHER OR NOT YOU'RE
TREADING WATER OR DROWNING
WHEN PEOPLE HAVE TO PAY FOR EACH
AND EVERY ONE OF THEIR FINANCIAL
TRANSACTIONS, IT'S JUST THIS
CYCLE OF UNPRODUCTIVE BANKING.
PEOPLE AREN'T CONNECTING INT
THE FINANCIAL MAIN STREAM, WHICH
MEANS THE ABILITY TO BECOM
STABLE AND GROW AND OPEN
BUSINESSES AND SAVE FOR THEI
KIDS TO GO TO COLLEGE, ALL O
THAT PATHWAY THAT YOU AND I TAKE
FOR GRANTED IS BEING DENIED TO
MILLIONS AND MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS.
>> Reporter: BUT CRITICS SAY
IT'S VERY HARD FOR THE POOR TO
SAVE IN THE FIRST PLACE, AND THE
LITTLE MONEY THEY DO SET ASIDE
GETS A MINUSCULE RETURN IN THE
BANK
HE ARGUES HIS BUSINESS MODEL
WORKS PERFECTLY WELL FOR
LOW-INCOME CUSTOMERS
>> OUR CUSTOMERS ARE LOWBALL
LANCE, HIGH-VOLUME CUSTOMERS AND
BANKS AREN'T COST EFFECTIVE AT
SERVING THAT POPULATION.
IF YOU'RE A LOW INCOME CONSUME
THAT'S WORKING ON A VERY SMALL
BUDGET AND DON'T HAVE MONEY TO
DEPOSIT, WE'RE FASTER, CHEAPER
AND BETTER
LOOK, SURE,, IF YOU HAVE A
$100,000 CHECK IT DOESN'T MAKE
SENSE TO PAY TO CASH IT.
IF YOU HAVE A $300 CHECK AND PAY
$6 TO GET $294 TO HAVE
IMMEDIATELY, IT MAKES SENSE.
>> Reporter: THEY CAN CHARGE
1.95% TO CASH A CHECK BUT TH
ESTIMATED NATIONAL AVERAGE I
MORE THAN 4% AND ALL THOSE FEE
ADD UP
A STUDY FROM THE BROOKINGS
INSTITUTION SHOWS THAT OVER
LIFETIME, RELYING ON CHECK
CASHERS INSTEAD OF A LOW-COS
CHECKING ACCOUNT COULD
POTENTIALLY ADD UP TO MORE THA
$40,000 FOR A LOW INCOME WORKER.
>> IT'S ESTIMATED THAT NEW YOR
RESIDENTS SPEND $225 MILLION I
FEES FOR CASHING CHECKS AT
BUSINESSES LIKE YOURS.
THAT'S A LOT OF MONEY.
WOULDN'T THAT BE BETTER FO
PEOPLE TO PUT THAT INTO A SAVING
ACCOUNT OR SOMETHING ELSE TO
BUILD, YOU KNOW, ASSETS AN
CREDIT
>> RIGHT
I THINK FIRST OF ALL, IF YOU
LOOK AT THE NUMBER O
TRANSACTIONS, PER TRANSACTIO
IT'S A SMALL AMOUNT.
THE BANKS ARE PROFIT MAKIN
ORGANIZATIONS AND GETTING FEES
THE PROBLEM IS THAT PEOPLE CAN'T
KEEP MONEY
ASSET BUILDING IS GOOD IF YO
CAN AFFORD TO BUILD AN ASSET
WHAT ABOUT THE PEOPLE THAT
CAN'T?
>> Reporter: JUST AS COLEMAN
CRITICIZES BANKS, MANY CRITICIZE
CHECK CASHING BUSINESSES FOR
WHAT ARE KNOWN AS PAYDAY LOANS
SHORT TERM ADVANCES WITH
EXTRAORDINARY HIGH INTERES
RATES, SOMETHING ALLOWED IN
STATES BUT NOT NEW YORK.
COLEMAN DOES ACRE KNOWLEDGE HI
INDUSTRY HAS PROBLEMS.
>> I WON'T SAY THAT EVERYBODY IN
MY INDUSTRY IS ANGEL I CAN AND
POOR
WE HAVE BAD ACTORS TOO
I'M HEARING THE PRESUMPTION THAT
SOMEHOW THIS INDUSTRY TENDS TO
BE MORE EVIL OR SOMETHING OR W
TEND TO BE TAKING MORE ADVANTAGE
AS AN UNCONSCIOUS CONNECTION
THERE.
WE'RE DOWN HERE MAKING MONEY
I MUST BE RIPPING OFF THE POOR
CHECK CASHERS ARE ADDRESSING
THIS MARKET GAP, NOT BY SOLVIN
THE PROBLEM, BUT BY PROFITIN
OFF THAT PROBLEM
>> Reporter: COMMISSIONER MINC
ACKNOWLEDGES TRADITIONAL BANKS
DON'T DO A GREAT JOB SERVING THE
POOR BUT WORKING ON HOW CITIES
CAN CONVINCE BANKS TO SERVE THIS
POPULATION
>> WHEN A CITY SAYS TO BANKS AND
CREDIT UNIONS, THIS IS OUR NEE
AND WE'RE OFFERING TENS OF
THOSES OF PEOPLE, BANKS WILL
RESPOND AND COME UP WITH THE
BEST PRODUCT THAT THEY HAVE, THE
MORE APPROPRIATE PRODUCT W
MIGHT GET OFF A SHELF OR
SOMEBODY MIGHT GET OFF THE
SHELF.
>> BANKS ARE ALREADY MAKING MORE
OF AN EFFORT TO REACH TH
COMMUNITY.
DOZENS OF CITIES LAUNCHED BANK
ON WHICH OFFERS FREE OR LOW COST
BANK ACCOUNTS AND THIS FAL
MINCE ANNOUNCED THE START OF
BANK ON 2.0 TO EXPAND ON THESE
EFFORTS, BUT FOR LISA, HOW BES
TO SERVE LOW INCOME PEOPLE I
NOW LONGER AS SIMPLE A
ADVOCATING FOR BANK ACCOUNTS
IN GENERAL, ARE YOU SAYING CAS
CHECKING PLACES ARE NECESSARY TO
SERVE THIS POPULATION OR ARE
THEY A NECESSARY EVIL?
HOW DO YOU VIEW IT
>> IT'S HARD TO UNDERSTAND WHY
PEOPLE WOULD PAY THOSE PRICES IF
THERE IS A BANK NEARBY, RIGHT?
BECAUSE YOU DON'T SEE THE ON THE
GROUND DECISION MAKING PEOPL
ARE DOING.
IT'S A LEAP FROM LOOKING AT TH
FACTS OF THE FEES TO SAYING IT
MUST BE BAD AND ABUSIVE.
AND IT'S A LOGICAL LEAP, RIGHT
UNLESS YOU GO DOWN THERE AND
TALK TO PEOPLE, IT'S NOT
OBVIOUS.
>>> WHAT DOES IT TAKE FOR TH
POOR TO GET BY
FIND OUT WHAT A LIVING WAG
MEANS IN YOUR CITY, VISIT NEW
HOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> THE WHITE HOUSE SAID FRIDA
IT RECEIVES A REPORT FROM
PRESIDENTIAL ADVISORY GROU
ASKED TO RECOMMEND CHANGES I
THE NATION'S SURVEILLANC
PROGRAMS
WHAT COMES NEXT, FOR MORE WE'R
JOINED NOW FROM WASHINGTON B
DAVID SANGER, HE'S THE NATIONA
SECURITY CORRESPONDENT FOR "TH
NEW YORK TIMES."
DAVID, WHAT RECOMMENDATIONS DO
YOU THINK THE GROUP MADE AND
WHAT'S THE PRESIDENT LIKELY TO
DO WITH THEM
>> RIGHT NOW, WE ONLY KNOW ABOUT
A FEW OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS
THAT ARE IN THE REPORT
THERE ARE MORE THAN 40 TOTAL
RECOMMENDATIONS, AND THE REPORT,
WHILE NOT CLASSIFIED IS GOING TO
REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL THE WHIT
HOUSE SAYS UNTIL THE PRESIDENT
HAD A CHANCE TO REVIEW IT AN
MAKE DECISIONS
BUT A FEW THINGS WE DO KNOW, THE
FIRST IS THAT THE PRESIDENT HA
DECIDED TO CONTINUE THE BULK
COLLECTION OF DOMESTICALLY
GATHERED TELEPHONE NUMBERS
THESE ARE THE VERY CONTROVERSIAL
PROGRAM THAT WAS REVEALED BY THE
SNOWDEN DOCUMENTS, EDWAR
SNOWDEN DOCUMENTS, WHICH
INVOLVES THE UNITED STATES
KEEPING RECORDS BACK ABOUT FIV
YEARS OF EVERY TELEPHONE CAL
THAT IS MADE FROM THE UNITED
STATES IN THE UNITED STATES AN
WHAT NUMBER THAT CALL WAS MADE
TO
IT DOES NOT RECORD
CONVERSATIONS.
THE SECOND BIG DECISION WE KNO
THE PRESIDENT HAS MADE AND WHITE
HOUSE ANNOUNCED IS THAT TH
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY IS NO
GOING TO BE SPLIT OFF FROM U.S
NOW CYBER COMMAND IS THE
PENTAGON'S BRANCH THAT BOT
DEFENDS THE PENTAGON'S NETWORK
AGAINST CYBER ATTACKS AND PUTS
TOGETHER OFFENSIVE ATTACKS
SIMILAR TO THE ONE THAT TH
UNITED STATES CONDUCTED ON IRA
A FEW YEARS AGO.
SOME PEOPLE HAVE BEEN CONCERNE
THAT PUTS TOO MUCH POWER IN TH
HANDS OF ONE MILITARY COMMANDER.
THE PRESIDENT HAS DECIDED TO G
AHEAD WITH IT.
>> I'M STRUCK BY THE COMBINATION
IN YOUR STORIES AND THIS ISSUE
ABOUT, YOU KNOW, THE PERCEIVED
NEED FOR SOME SORT O
TRANSPARENCY AND YET, THE PUBLIC
NOT SEEMING TO BE TOO ALARMED ON
THIS OR AT LEAST GIVING TH
GOVERNMENT SOME LEEWAY ON THIS
IT'S ALMOST LIKE THE PUBLIC'
RIGHT TO KNOW, IN THIS CASE LIKE
THE PUBLIC DOESN'T WANT TO KNOW.
DO YOU SENSE THE PUSH AND PULL
>> YOU CERTAINLY DO.
THERE WAS A BIT OF A SENSE RIGHT
NOW THAT THE COMMITTEE THA
REPORTED TO PRESIDENT OBAMA WA
IN FACT SIGNIFICANTLY MORE
AGGRESSIVE IN TALKING ABOU
CUTTING BACK ON SOME OF THES
PROGRAMS THAN THE PUBLIC HAS A
LEAST ARTICULATED SO FAR
WE THINK THAT THE COMMITTEE, I
FACT, WANTS TO HAV
SIGNIFICANTLY GREATE
TRANSPARENCY FOR A NUMBER OF THE
PROGRAMS
THERE'S A GOOD INDICATION THAT
THEY ARE IN FAVOR OF MAKING SURE
THAT IF THE GOVERNMENT GOES TO
GET A WARRANT FROM THE FOREIGN
INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE COUR
THAT THERE'S SOMEONE TO ARGU
THE OTHER SIDE, THE PRIVACY SIDE
OF THAT.
THAT'S BEEN DEBATED SOME I
ELITE CIRCLES IN THE UNITE
STATES BUT NOT A REGULAR SUBJECT
OF, SAY, CABLE NEWS SHOWS AND SO
FORTH, AND IT DOES RAISE A
INTERESTING QUESTION, AR
AMERICANS IN A POST 9/11 ERA
ACCUSTOMED TO IT BUT ACCEPTING
OF IT?
>> DAVID SANGER, THANK YOU S
MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU
>>> THIS IS PBS NEWS HOU
WEEKEND SUNDAY
>>> AND FINALLY TONIGHT, A LOO
AT A STORY THAT SLIPPED FROM THE
HEADLINES, THE STATUS OF THE
MEMBERS OF ROCK BAND RIOT
WERESENTENCEED TO PRISON
NOW, WORD THAT THE TWO JAILE
MEMBERS OF THE GROUP COULD B
FREED EARLY UNDER AN AMNESTY
PLAN
A REPORT IS BY ITV'S MATT FRAY
♪
>> Reporter: UNTIL THEY LAUNCHED
THE PROTEST AGAINST THE ORDER OF
RUSSIA'S MOST PROMINEN
CATHEDRAL, THE WORLD BAREL
HEARD OF THE PUNK ROCK BAN
PUSSY RIOT, THE PROTESTED, NOT
THE MUSIC, WENT GLOBAL AND
VIRAL.
IT ALSO EARNED THEM A FATE THE
PERHAPS DIDN'T BARGAIN FOR
THREE MEMBERS WERE CONVICTED
MOTIVATED BY RELIGIOUS HATRE
AND SENTENCED TO TWO YEARS I
JAIL
ONE WAS LATER FREED.
THEY ATRAGTED SUPPORT OF NOT
ONLY HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATION
BUT CELEBRIIES AND OUT OF TH
BLUERLIER THIS WEEK PRESIDEN
PUTIN SUBMITTED AMNESTY.
IT COULD BE A WAY TO AVOID
EMBARRASSMENT FOR MR. PUTI
AFTER A REVIEW INTO THE GUILTY
JUDGMENTS.
THE PRESIDENT IS SEEKING THE
PRESSURE TO RELEASE THE PAIR
AHEAD OF THE WINTER OLYMPICS I
FEBRUARY
THEIR EARLY RELEASE LOOKS,
SHOULD WE SAY, TIMELY.
>>> JOIN US ON THE NEWS HOUR
TOMORROW ON AIR AND ONLINE
THE BIG DECISION FACING TH
FEDERAL RESERVE, SHOULD IT EAS
POLICIES STIMULATING THE
ECONOMY?
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND, I'M JOH
LARSON, THANKS FOR WATCHING.